**Homeowners Association Project Case**

Design 03 Case: Elections

Board Members are elected by the Homeowners. An election is held usually every year or every two years. Every election is described by (a) Year of the Election, (b) Date of the Election, (c) status of the election – scheduled, on-going nomination, on-going election, voided, closed, cancelled, completed, (d) New date of election – if the previous schedule was cancelled or voided due to lack of voters, (e) resident acting as the chair of the election committee. An election aside from the chair of the committee has four (4) other members, each is a resident of the subdivision.

In each election, candidates are registered. Information needed per candidate includes (a) Resident ID, (b) Current description of work, (c) Previous work experiences or community leadership experiences, (d) priorities if elected, (e) recent picture, (f) video of them presenting themselves to the entire community as a candidate, (g) undertaking that the information provided is correct, accurate, and signifies that they have reviewed their qualifications as valid, (h) year of continuous residence in the subdivision, (i) status of candidacy – filed, accepted, rejected Candidacies can be rejected if the election committee discovered that the candidate have committed acts disqualifying him/her to run for the election. The reason for the committee rejecting the candidacy is recorded.

During election, homeowners (or their authorized resident) can only vote. Even if the authorized resident voted, it will still be recorded as a vote of the homeowner. Homeowners vote for nine (9) members of the board from the candidate. Their votes are recorded. At the end of the election, and the number of voters did not reach 50%+1 of the homeowners, the election is declared void and a new election date is selected. If the election is completed then the top nine (9) candidates are declared the new board members of the association.
